Motion Picture and Sound Recording IndustriesT: Industries in the Motion Picture and Sound Recording Industries subsector group establishments involved in the production and distribution of motion pictures and sound recordings. While producers and distributors of motion pictures and sound recordings issue works for sale as traditional publishers do, the processes are sufficiently different to warrant placing establishments engaged in these activities in a separate subsector. Production is typically a complex process that involves several distinct types of establishments that are engaged in activities, such as contracting with performers, creating the film or sound content, and providing technical postproduction services. Film distribution is often to exhibitors, such as theaters and broadcasters, rather than through the wholesale and retail distribution chain. When the product is in a mass-produced form, NAICS treats production and distribution as the major economic activity as it does in the Publishing Industries subsector, rat
Motion Picture and Video IndustriesT: This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the production and/or distribution of motion pictures, videos, television programs, or commercials; in the exhibition of motion pictures; or in the provision of postproduction and related services.
Motion Picture and Video ProductionT: See industry description for 512110.
Motion Picture and Video Production: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in producing, or producing and distributing motion pictures, videos, television programs, or television commercials.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Motion Picture and Video DistributionT: See industry description for 512120.
Motion Picture and Video Distribution: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acquiring distribution rights and distributing film and video productions to motion picture theaters, television networks and stations, other media broadcast and streaming outlets, and exhibitors.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Motion Picture and Video ExhibitionT: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating motion picture theaters and/or exhibiting motion pictures or videos at film festivals, and so forth.
Motion Picture Theaters (except Drive-Ins): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) and/or exhibiting motion pictures or videos at film festivals, and so forth.
Drive-In Motion Picture Theaters: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating drive-in motion picture theaters.
Postproduction Services and Other Motion Picture and Video IndustriesT: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing postproduction services and other services to the motion picture industry, including specialized motion picture or video postproduction services, such as editing, film/tape transfers, titling, subtitling, credits, closed captioning, and computer-produced graphics, animation and special effects, as well as developing and processing motion picture film.Illustrative Examples:Motion picture film laboratoriesStock footage film librariesPostproduction facilitiesTeleproduction services Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized motion picture or video postproduction services, such as editing, film/tape transfers, subtitling, credits, closed captioning, and animation and special effects.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Other Motion Picture and Video Industries: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing motion picture and video services (except motion picture and video production, distribution, exhibition, and teleproduction and other postproduction services).Illustrative Examples:Motion picture film laboratoriesStock footage film librariesFilm preservation servicesCross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Sound Recording IndustriesT: This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in producing and distributing musical recordings, publishing music, or providing sound recording and related services.
Music PublishersT: See industry description for 512230.
Music Publishers: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acquiring and registering copyrights for musical compositions in accordance with law and promoting and authorizing the use of these compositions in recordings, radio, television, motion pictures, live performances, print, or other media. Establishments in this industry represent the interests of the songwriter or other owners of musical compositions to produce revenues from the use of such works, generally through licensing agreements. These establishments may own the copyright or act as administrator of the music copyrights on behalf of copyright owners. Publishers of music books and sheet music are included in this industry.Cross-References.
Sound Recording StudiosT: See industry description for 512240.
Sound Recording Studios: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing the facilities and technical expertise for sound recording in a studio. This industry includes establishments that provide audio production and postproduction services to produce master recordings. These establishments may provide audio services for film, television, and video productions.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Record Production and DistributionT: See industry description for 512250.
Record Production and Distribution: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in record production and/or releasing, promoting, and distributing sound recordings to wholesalers, retailers, or directly to the public. These establishments contract with artists, arrange and finance the production of original master recordings, and/or produce master recordings themselves, such as digital music and compact discs. Establishments in this industry hold the copyright to the master recording, or obtain reproduction and distribution rights to master recordings produced by others, and derive most of their revenues from the sales, leasing, licensing, or distribution of master recordings. Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Other Sound Recording IndustriesT: See industry description for 512290.
Other Sound Recording Industries: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing sound recording services (except record production, distribution, music publishing, and sound recording in a studio). Establishments in this industry provide services, such as the audio recording of meetings and conferences.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Publishing IndustriesT: Industries in the Publishing Industries subsector group establishments engaged in publishing newspapers, magazines, other periodicals, books, directories, and software. In general, establishments known as publishers issue copies of works for which they usually possess copyright. Works may be in one or more formats including print form, CD-ROM, proprietary electronic networks, or exclusively on the Internet. Publishers may publish works originally created by others for which they have obtained the rights and/or works that they have created in-house. Publishers may publish only and license rights to others to distribute their content, or they may publish and distribute content they create or own. Software publishing is included here because the activity, creation of a copyrighted product and bringing it to market, is equivalent to the creation process for other types of intellectual products.In NAICS, publishing--the reporting, writing, editing, and other processes that are requir
Newspaper, Periodical, Book, and Directory PublishersT: This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing newspapers, magazines, other periodicals, books, directories and mailing lists, and other works, such as calendars, greeting cards, and maps. These works are characterized by the intellectual creativity required in their development and are usually protected by copyright. Publishers distribute or arrange for the distribution of these works.Publishing establishments may create the works in-house, or contract for, purchase, or compile works that were originally created by others. These works may be published in one or more formats, such as print and/or electronic form, including proprietary electronic networks or exclusively on the Internet. Establishments in this industry may print, reproduce, or offer direct access to the works themselves or may arrange with others to carry out such functions.Establishments that both print and publish may fill excess capacity with commercial or job printing. However,
Newspaper PublishersT: See industry description for 513110.
Newspaper Publishers: This industry comprises establishments known as newspaper publishers. Establishments in this industry carry out operations necessary for producing and distributing newspapers, including gathering news; writing news columns, feature stories, and editorials; and selling and preparing advertisements. These establishments may publish newspapers in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Cross-References.
Periodical PublishersT: See industry description for 513120.
Periodical Publishers: This industry comprises establishments known either as magazine publishers or periodical publishers. These establishments carry out the operations necessary for producing and distributing magazines and other periodicals, such as gathering, writing, and editing articles, and selling and preparing advertisements. These establishments may publish magazines and other periodicals in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Illustrative Examples:Comic book publishersMagazine publishersScholarly journal publishersNewsletter publishersTrade journal publishersCross-References.
Book PublishersT: See industry description for 513130.
Book Publishers: This industry comprises establishments known as book publishers. Establishments in this industry carry out design, editing, and marketing activities necessary for producing and distributing books. These establishments may publish books in print, electronic, or audio form, including exclusively on the Internet.Illustrative Examples:Atlas publishersReligious book publishersGraphic novel publishersSchool textbook publishersEncyclopedia publishersTechnical manual publishersMap publishers Travel guide book publishersCross-References.
Directory and Mailing List PublishersT: See industry description for 513140.
Directory and Mailing List Publishers: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing directories, mailing lists, and collections or compilations of fact. The products are typically protected in their selection, arrangement and/or presentation. Examples are lists of mailing addresses, telephone directories, directories of businesses, collections or compilations of proprietary drugs or legal case results, compilations of public records, etc. These establishments may publish directories and mailing lists in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Illustrative Examples:Business directory publishersMailing list publishersDirectory publishersTelephone directory publishersCross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Other PublishersT: This industry comprises establishments known as publishers (except newspaper, magazine, book, directory, mailing list, music, and software publishers). These establishments may publish works in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Illustrative Examples:Art publishersGreeting card publishersCalendar publishersCross-References.
Greeting Card Publishers: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing greeting cards. These establishments may publish works in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Cross-References.
All Other Publishers: This U.S. industry comprises establishments generally known as publishers (except newspaper, magazine, book, directory, mailing list, music, software, and greeting card publishers). These establishments may publish works in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.Illustrative Examples:Art publishersCalendar publishersCross-References.
Software PublishersT:
Software PublishersT: See industry description for 513210.
Software Publishers: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in software publishing. Establishments in this industry carry out operations necessary for producing and distributing computer software, such as designing, providing documentation, assisting in installation, and providing support services to software purchasers. These establishments may design, develop, and publish, or publish only. These establishments may publish and distribute software through subscriptions and/or downloads. Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Broadcasting and Content ProvidersT: Industries in the Broadcasting and Content Providers subsector include establishments that create content or acquire the right to distribute content and subsequently broadcast or distribute that content. The industry groups (Radio and Television Broadcasting Stations and Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content Providers) are based on differences in the methods of communication and the nature of services provided. The Radio and Television Broadcasting Stations industry group includes establishments that operate radio or television broadcasting stations for the programming and transmission of programs to the public. Programming may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources. The Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content Providers industry group includes establishments providing media streaming distribution services, operating social network
Radio and Television Broadcasting StationsT: This industry group comprises establishments operating radio or television broadcasting stations for the programming and transmission of programs to the public. Programming may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.
Radio Broadcasting StationsT: See industry description for 516110.
Radio Broadcasting Stations: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting aural programs by radio to the public. These establishments operate radio broadcasting studios and facilities for the programming and transmission of programs to the public. Programming may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Television Broadcasting StationsT: See industry description for 516120.
Television Broadcasting Stations: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting images together with sound. These establishments operate television broadcasting studios and facilities for the programming and transmission of programs to the public. Programming may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content ProvidersT:
Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content ProvidersT: See industry description for 516210.
Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content Providers: This industry comprises establishments primarily providing media streaming distribution services, operating social network sites, operating media broadcasting and cable television networks, and supplying information, such as news reports, articles, pictures, and features, to the news media. These establishments distribute textual, audio, and/or video content of general or specific interest.Illustrative Examples:Broadcasting networks, radioBroadcasting networks, televisionCable broadcasting networksCable television networksInternet broadcastingPay-per-view cable programmingSatellite radio networksSatellite television networksSocial network sites, InternetStand-alone streaming servicesSubscription Video on Demand (SVOD) servicesSyndicates, newsVirtual Multichannel Video Programming Distributors (vMVPDs)Web broadcastingWiki sites, Internet Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
TelecommunicationsT: Industries in the Telecommunications subsector group establishments that provide telecommunications and the services related to that activity (e.g., telephony, including Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP); cable and satellite television distribution services; Internet access; telecommunications reselling services). The Telecommunications subsector is primarily engaged in operating and/or providing access to facilities for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and video. Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of technologies.Establishments primarily engaged as independent contractors in the installation and maintenance of telecommunications systems are classified in Sector 23, Construction.
Wired and Wireless Telecommunications (except Satellite): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating transmission facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease, and providing telecommunications services using wired and wireless telecommunications networks; (2) reselling wired and wireless telecommunications services (except satellite); and (3) acting as agents for wireless telecommunications services.
Wired and Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating, maintaining, and/or providing access to switching and transmission facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and video using wired and wireless telecommunications networks (except satellite). Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of technologies. By exception, establishments providing satellite television distribution services using facilities and infrastructure that they operate are included in this industry.Illustrative Examples:Broadband Internet service providers, wired (e.g., cable, DSL)Cable television distribution servicesCellular telephone service carriersDirect-to-home satellite system (DTH) servicesSatellite television distribution systemsTelecommunications carriers, wired and wirelessVoIP service providers, using own operated wired telecommunications infrastructureWireless Internet service
Wired Telecommunications Carriers: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating, maintaining, and/or providing access to transmission facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and video using wired telecommunications networks. Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of technologies. Establishments in this industry use the wired telecommunications network facilities that they operate to provide a variety of services, such as wired telephony services, including VoIP services; wired (cable) audio and video programming distribution; and wired broadband Internet services. By exception, establishments providing satellite television distribution services using facilities and infrastructure that they operate are included in this industry.Illustrative Examples:Broadband Internet service providers, wired (e.g., cable, DSL)Cable television distribution servicesClosed-circuit television (CCTV)
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating and maintaining switching and transmission facilities to provide communications via the airwaves. Establishments in this industry have spectrum licenses and provide services using that spectrum, such as cellular phone services, paging services, wireless Internet access, and wireless video services.Illustrative Examples:Cellular telephone service carriersWireless Internet service providers, except satellitePaging services, except satelliteWireless telephone communications carriers, except satellite Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Telecommunications Resellers and Agents for Wireless Telecommunication Services: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) purchasing access and network capacity from owners and operators of telecommunications networks and reselling wired and wireless telecommunications services to businesses and households (except satellite telecommunications) or (2) acting as agents for wireless telecommunications carriers and resellers, selling wireless plans on a commission basis. Establishments in this industry do not operate as telecommunications carriers. Mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) are included in this industry.Illustrative Examples:Agents for wireless telecommunications carriersCellular telephone stores, selling cellular phone service plans on an agent basisMobile phone stores, selling mobile phone service plans on an agent basisWired telecommunications resellersWireless phone service plan sales agents, selling on behalf of wireless telecommunications carriersWireless telecommunications resellers (except satellite telecommunica
Telecommunications Resellers: This U.S. industry comprises establishments engaged in purchasing access and network capacity from owners and operators of telecommunications networks and reselling wired and wireless telecommunications services to businesses and households (except satellite telecommunications and agents for wireless telecommunications services). Establishments in this industry resell telecommunications; they do not operate transmission facilities and infrastructure.Illustrative Examples:Mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) (except agents)Pre-paid calling cards, telecommunications resellersWired telecommunications resellersWireless telecommunications resellers (except satellite telecommunications and agents) Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Agents for Wireless Telecommunications Services: This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents for wireless telecommunications carriers and resellers, selling wireless plans on a commission basis.Illustrative Examples:Agents for mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs)Agents for wireless telecommunications carriersCellular telephone stores, selling cellular phone service plans on an agent basisMobile phone stores, selling mobile phone service plans on an agent basisWireless phone service plan sales agents, selling on behalf of wireless telecommunications carriers Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Satellite TelecommunicationsT:
Satellite TelecommunicationsT: See industry description for 517410.
Satellite Telecommunications: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing telecommunications services to other establishments in the telecommunications and broadcasting industries by forwarding and receiving communications signals via a system of satellites or reselling satellite telecommunications.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
All Other Telecommunications:
All Other Telecommunications: See industry description for 517810.
All Other Telecommunications: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized telecommunications services, such as satellite tracking, communications telemetry, and radar station operation. This industry also includes establishments primarily engaged in providing satellite terminal stations and associated facilities connected with one or more terrestrial systems and capable of transmitting telecommunications to, and receiving telecommunications from, satellite systems. Establishments providing Internet services or Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) services via client-supplied telecommunications connections are also included in this industry. Establishments in this industry do not operate as telecommunications carriers.Illustrative Examples:Dial-up Internet service providersInternet service providers, using client-supplied telecommunications connections (e.g., dial-up ISPs)Satellite tracking stationsVoIP service providers, using client-supplied telecommunications connect
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related ServicesT: The Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related Services subsector groups establishments that provide computing infrastructure, data processing services, Web hosting services (except software publishing), and related services, including streaming support services (except streaming distribution services).
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related ServicesT:
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related ServicesT: See industry description for 518210.
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related Services: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing computing infrastructure, data processing services, Web hosting services (except software publishing), and related services, including streaming support services (except streaming distribution services). Data processing establishments provide complete processing and specialized reports from data supplied by clients or provide automated data processing and data entry services.Illustrative Examples:Application hostingCloud storage servicesComputer data storage servicesComputing platform infrastructure provisionInfrastructure as a service (IaaS)Optical scanning servicesPlatform as a service (PaaS)Video and audio technical streaming support servicesWeb hostingCross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Web Search Portals, Libraries, Archives, and Other Information ServicesT: Industries in the Web Search Portals, Libraries, Archives, and Other Information Services subsector group establishments supplying information, storing and providing access to information, searching and retrieving information, and operating Web sites that use search engines to allow for searching information on the Internet. The main components of the subsector are libraries, archives, and Web search portals.
Web Search Portals, Libraries, Archives, and Other Information ServicesT:
Libraries and ArchivesT: See industry description for 519210.
Libraries and Archives: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing library or archive services. These establishments are engaged in maintaining collections of documents (e.g., books, journals, newspapers, and music) and facilitating the use of such documents (recorded information regardless of its physical form and characteristics) as required to meet the informational, research, educational, or recreational needs of their user. These establishments may also acquire, research, store, preserve, and generally make accessible to the public historical documents, photographs, maps, audio material, audiovisual material, and other archival material of historical interest. All or portions of these collections may be accessible electronically.Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--
Web Search Portals and All Other Information ServicesT: See industry description for 519290.
Web Search Portals and All Other Information Services